Installation And Usage Instructions


This is an Income Expenditure Forecast Calculator, it forecast your 3 months of your personal income and expenditure. 
This could also be used for Personal, Government Budget, Large Corporate...etc. The main point is just feed in your own items and values. 
If those; including personal, government or corporate who are facing debts, this could also be used as a way to handle it properly or efficiently.


Software Installation

In order to use the Forecast calculator, you need Excel Spreadsheet software to be installed. 
There are 2 types of options to choose from, one is paid software (products such as Microsoft 365 or previous version of Microsoft Office products), 
the other is free software (products such as WPS Office, or libreoffice). 

- Microsoft (paid free or online version) - https://www.microsoft365.com
- WPS Office (free) - https://www.wps.com
- Libreoffice (free) - https://www.libreoffice.org


Usage

- This forecast template forecast up to 4 years. Inside, You can rename the worksheet to another name. Please follow the below procedure:

1.Rename your work in the “Main” worksheet.
2.Rename the Worksheet.

- For the Debts. Order Matters, For Debts: If the first item is for HSBC Bank, every time when you need to make a record for payback. 
You need to place on the first item, then it will automatically be calculated.  


As mentioned, it forecast up to 4 years. After 4 years. To create another new 4 years, please follow the procedures below:

i.Copy the template to another file.
ii.Rename the file name.
iii.Set start and end date in the "Main" worksheet. The start date and end date should be the forecast beginning and end date of the previous file last worksheet.

iv.Data migration
    i.To make it clear. Just copy everything of the previous last forecast worksheet to the new forecast first worksheet.
    ii.Detailed Steps:
        i.This step is data migration. copy all the "Assets" values from the previous to the new on the first worksheet.
        ii.Then copy all the expenses "Item and Values" from the old forecast to the new for every worksheet. (I Know this is very cumblesome).
        iii.Then copy the debts value from the old forecast to the new forecast on the very first worksheet.
        iv.Then copy all the "Revenues" and "Expenses" of the previous file last forecast to the new forecasts first worksheet.
        v.Another approach is to copy the old forecast to a new forecast and rename it, and set all the values to 0 "Zeros" and fill in all the new values.